All right, so
now we're gonna go from merge to rebase.
I know everyone's excited about rebase.
The thing about rebase is I am
completely convinced people don't
like rebase cuz, a,
they heard on Twitter that it's bad, b,
they used rebase that one time,
screwed it all up.
And now they hate it and it's ruined
their life, therefore rebase is bad.
It's not bad, it's actually fantastic.
Rebase is just yet another tool in your
get bad belt to be able to manipulate and
use your repo effectively.
There's actually a really good
reason why you should use rebase.
We'll kind of get into
it a little bit more.
So this is our current setup right now.
We have foo, which is B...C, and we have
trunk which is all the way up to Y at
this point cuz we have merged on bar,
so this should be your setup right now.
Now we can demonstrate the power of
rebase by updating where foo points to.
We're gonna create this
graph by using rebase.
This is what rebase does, is it allows you
to update underneath your set of changes.
And this is very important cuz it is
rewriting history in some sense, but
it's allowing you to have what is
currently the reality, then your changes.
As opposed to your changes that
are tested against some previous
reality that's no longer true.
You can now have it properly inline and
then to be able to find out did you
actually write something that's good or
does it suck?
All right, so, and
this also means when we decide to merge
foo onto trunk,
we can do a fast forward merge.
Cuz again, our best common ancestor,
our merge base is the tip of
trunk now that we rebased.
And this is typically why
people really like rebase,
is that it allows no merge commits.
And there's a good reason why you
don't want merge commits, and
we'll cover a little bit later.
All right, so
basic steps of what rebase does.
First thing rebase does, is that you
will first go git rebase <targetbranch>.
Second, what it's gonna do is it's gonna
actually check out the latest commit
on the <targetbranch>.
So you're no longer on your branch
you actually switch branches to
the <targetbranch>.
Then it's gonna take the branch that
you were on the <currentbranch> and
play the commits one at a time in
order onto the <targetbranch>.
Then it'll go back check out
your <currentbranch> and
update <currentbranch> to
point to that latest commit.
So therefore it actually just moves
your commit forward in time and
plays it one at a time.
That's how you got to think about merge,
it's a little bit or a rebase,
it's just a little bit different.
But it's very important to understand
that cuz down the line, rebase is
gonna cause a lot of problems if you
don't know about that specific feature.
All right,
I want you to rebase foo with trunk.
Create a separate branch,
create called foo-rebase-trunk.
And so you're gonna literally do
a git rebase trunk on this branch.
So I'll do it myself too,
I'll checkout foo and
you can do a git log if you're curious,
right, there you go A, B, C.
And so then I can do one on trunk A, D,
E, X, Y, and then I can go git rebase,
or get checkout almost messed that one up,
there we go.
We'll create the new branch,
foo-rebase-trunk, and
I'm gonna go get rebase trunk.
All right, we've rebased.
So what happened?
Well, let's look at the log,
git log --oneline,
look at what we see, we see trunk.
But we also see our two commits
that differed from trunk.
Now after Y,
we now have history that is linear.
So now you see that trunk which contained
bar as our last merge is now the base for
foo-rebase-trunk.
In other words, foo is no longer diverging
from trunk, it's now linearly walking
the history forward, which means we
can fast forward merge if we want to.
So there are some pros.
Obviously you get a clean history with no
merge commits as well as if you use get
logged to kind of look through things.
If you wanna walk
backwards through changes,
there's just significantly less kind
of commits to have to go through.
The cons obviously,
are that it alters branch history.
And when you alter branch history,
if you have the same branch on
another repo, you then have a problem.
Because you have two branches, named the
same thing with two different histories.
And so this is typically where you see
that git push force cuz you want to
forcefully tell the other repo,
I know what foo has, and
my version of foo is more correct than
yours, so you need to update everything.
All right, some cautionary word, never
change the history of a public branch.
I believe Mark over there, Mr. CEO,
actually has done that once before and
it's a major pain, it's a super pain,
don't ever do that.
So typically, what you'll see is
always merge on public branches,
rebase on private branches.
So you have some changes you wanna make
sure they actually work with the latest
part of whatever you're working on.
You can then rebase it forward, run your
tests, run whatever, everything works.
If you have a conflict Grantham resolve it
then that way you have your private branch
being altered in history, but
your public branch never changes history.
The moment you do that,
it breaks everybody.
Everybody breaks the moment
you change public history.
So don't ever do that for any reason,
unless you have a really good reason
which, again, I heard one yesterday.
Still not sure if it's real.
>> Horror stories-
>> Horror stories.
>> I've totally broken main,
I've broken RC,
I've broken-
>> Yeah.
>> The CTO basically just has to
clean up my mess constantly, and
I'm in there [LAUGH] so classic CEO.
Yeah, classic.
>> Yeah, there's a lot more, but
we need some more foundational
knowledge before we go over it.
So we kind of have a nice little base here
now you know branches, merging, rebase.
You kind of get how they work,
you understand how commits work.
You actually understand that it is
the storage point of the entire repo per
commit, but it's efficiently stored,
so it's not a waste of space.
This is also why whenever you're
downloading a git repo that has a long
history, it takes a while.
Cuz it's literally downloading
every single change possible,
cuz it needs to be able to
reconstruct the repo at any one time.
That's also why if you do a git clone and
use like depth one,
I believe is the proper option.
It will actually just come down
with only the last the last commit,
which will contain the entire repo.
That's how you get that
efficient checkout.